# nodejs-audit
Node.JS project for auditing the configuration

This [repo](https://github.com/michaelmong/nodejs-audit "nodejs-audit") has been created for sharing some relevant techniques to audit the MML configurations. Below are the list and detail of them that you can feel free to apply to your works.

  1. ``Https.js``
  
      HTTP and HTTPS (through express) - Required libraries to enable HTTP and HTTPS are _fs_, _http_, _https_, _express_ and _path_. For HTTPS, self-signed certificate can be generated by OpenSSL.exe (downloadable from Internet) with the following command. 
      ```
      OpenSSL> req -x509 -sha256 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout privateKey.key -out certificate.crt
      ```
      In Audit project, HTTP and HTTPS has been used to provide webUI to users, instead of having another Frontend interface.
  2. ``Readfile.js``

      Reading text file line-by-line - MML configuration text file was used for INPUT of the audit process. Each line of MML configuration can be formatted as "COMMAND: parameter1=value1, paramter2=value2, ...., paramterN=valueN;". Everytime Node.JS read a line, splitting between command and all paramters with values must be done before moving to the next line. Eventually, output will be sent to excel module and written as an XLSX file. Required libraries are _fs_ and _readline_.
  3. ``Excel4node.js``

      Working with excel by excel4node - I have found that it is pretty easy to create an Excel file by excel4node library. But it is quite difficult to read the value of each cell at all. So here, in this project, after reading the text file by Readfile.js, I split the parameters of desired command, and use excel4node to create Excel file.
      Since this is audit project to compare two input files, so ``Readfile.js`` and ``Excel4node.js`` are supposed to run twice by using the reusable code. However, I haven't optimize the code to make it common reusable. Rather than doing that, I just run the program twice with different input filename variables.
  4. ``Exceljs.js``
      
      Working with excel by exceljs - Exceljs is very powerful to read each cell of Excel file. In the project, after I generated two Excel files from different MML configurations by ``Excel4node.js``, processing of comparison the parameters by reading one-by-one from two Excel files are done in this module. Finally ``Excel4node.js" would be called to generate report in Excel format file again.
  
``README.md`` has been updated on 11 April, 2020

11-Apr-2020: Repo has been created and published. ``Https.js`` and relevant files has been added to repo.

16-Apr-2020: ``Readfile.js`` and relevant files has been added to repo.

26-Apr-2020: ``Excel4node.js``,  ``Exceljs.js`` and relevant files has been added to repo.